every year when Google launches their
pixel devices the hardware updates feel
underwhelming like it's just small
incremental updates from the previous
generation and we're used to it that's
just how the pixel devices have always
been but this year on the pixel 9
devices Google has outdone themselves we
now have arguably the least impressive
Hardware bump we've ever seen on the
pixels like it's so minimal and yet it
was accompanied with a $100 price
increase across the board so we got to
talk about them I was able to spend a
little bit of time with all the new
pixel devices including three slab
phones and one new foldable the naming
around the three slab phones is a little
bit confusing so there's the pixel 9 the
pixel9 pro and then the pixel9 pro XL
the XL though is not some like extra
large pixel Pro it is but it's actually
the size that we've always been used to
it's like the size that we had last year
on the regular pixel Pro so this right
here is last year's pixel 8 Pro and then
this is this year's pixel 9 Pro XL
they're the same size and even the
screen sizes are pretty much the same
between them the new sized phone is
actually the pixel 9 Pro and it's a size
that didn't exist before but Google
thought it was worth it to do so it's
here now a smaller version of the pixel
Pro product it's actually the exact same
size as a pixel 9 but the screen on the
pro is actually a little bit bigger
because it has thinner bezels the design
is a little bit different this year on
the pixel9 devices they're just a more
boxy aesthetic so the curved back that
we saw on the pixel 7 Pro as well as the
pixel 8 Pro this is like not that
they're exactly the same but they had
the same kind of curved back idea that
design is now gone and been replaced
with a flatback now if you look at the
the previous generation compared to the
pixel 9 Pro the new pixel9 Pro
definitely looks more like iPhone like
in terms of just that flat back but it's
still very pixel so the big thing is
this camera hump now the camera hump
used to have I mean if you look at the
previous two generations the pixel 7 Pro
and the pixel 8 Pro these both had a
camera bar that ran across the full back
and this bar was like a part of the
frame like this metal frame would come
into the camera bar right it was just
this iconic design that the pixel
devices have had over the past couple
years the new pixel9 Pro that bar is
gone like there just now a hump that
protrudes from that back glass and I
think it looks cleaner but it's not as
visually memorable to me as the previous
generations now in terms of the
thickness the new pixel 9 Pro is
actually a little bit thinner than the
pixel 8 Pro but it may not seem like
that on camera just because the
curvature of the older phones just kind
of gives an illusion of a thinner device
but when you throw calipers on it this
is slightly thinner as well as being a
little bit heavier on the scale now the
pro comes in a few colors and it has a
matte finish to that back glass the
metal rail still has a polished finish
like the previous generations uh but the
hazel color on the pro device was look
really nice to me it's like a matte gray
finish I love the look of that the
regular pixel 9's like the non-pros have
more colorful options so the two most
interesting colors to me are the winter
green and the PE these look really nice
the PE in particular is like a really
vibrant pink and it's just not what you
typically get with Google's pixel
devices now the new screens are brighter
than the previous generation when you
look at paper specs but when I was at
that Google event it was actually really
hard to tell the differences apart now I
think it was because of the lighting
there it wasn't bright enough for the
screens to really pop but I will say
that the bezels are a little bit thinner
this year and might I just add that
they're even bezels around the whole
device it's not a big deal to be honest
but it is interesting to me because
Google never did it before on the pixel
phones and it is a more expensive thing
to do right you got to get the flexible
oleds that can wrap around like that so
it's interesting but regardless it's a
very nice looking screen and if you want
to protect it with tempered glass you
can use the dbrand glass product goes
right up to the edge super clean install
but the pixel9 device with the biggest
screen is the new pixel fold except
instead of it being called the pixel
fold 2 it's the pixel 9 Pro fold now
it's noticeably thinner than the first
pixel fold and it also has a new Snappy
hinge but the one thing that they
changed that I was surprised and
honestly disappointed by is that they
changed the aspect ratio of the whole
device like the front screen and the
inside screen so the original pixel fold
was quite unique like it was a more
Stout and short device and you could
easily oneand operate that front screen
and it was just different from most of
the other foldables on the market
particularly the Samsung foldables but
the new pixel9 Pro fold is a taller
device with a taller screen so it's a
little bit less onand operable I also
will say that the thicker bezels and
like the very visible crease were
surprising to me at this stage like a
2024 foldable that's $1,800 at the base
uh I don't know I was expecting I was
hoping for something a little bit more
up todate and they did show a new
feature that has like these animations
that you can play on the front screen to
attract the attention of like a very
young child or maybe some of the tension
problems and you uh when the animation
goes you can snap the picture it's a
very kind of like Niche scenario that
that would be useful for but it is
something that I haven't seen before on
other devices at least not yet now all
of these new phones will be running a
new chip from Google the tensor G4 I
wasn't able to Benchmark this stuff at
the event but from all the leaks we've
seen it's like a very mild performance
bump from the previous generation like
maybe 10% better than the G3 uh but same
with storage the kind of Base storage
for all these devices remains unchanged
from the previous generation and Camera
hardware for the most part it's
unchanged like there are some updates of
notes like the front-facing cameras have
been updated those are supposed to be
better uh and there's some new software
features that I'm assuming comes from
the new chip all this stuff will be
tested in the review but for the most
part camera Hardware just didn't have
any big Hardware changes on the main
sensors the battery sizes are like
fractionally larger than the previous
generation at least on the slab phones
but on the folding phone is actually a
little bit smaller than the previous
generation the optical fingerprint
sensors we've seen for years on Pixel
devices have been replaced with an
ultrasonic one which should be much more
reliable but the biggest change at least
the most interesting Hardware change to
me is actually the Ram size so the pixel
9 like the base regular pixel 9 that's
not at 12 gigs of RAM and the pixel 9
Pro devices have 16 gigs of RAM which is
a crazy amount of memory for a phone and
the reason for all this Ram is because
of Google's AI Endeavors particularly
through Google Gemini I was shown a few
things there's two that came to mind the
first one that they showed me was some
camera feature called add me and the
idea behind this is that in situations
when you are with a friend or with a
group of people and you want a photo of
everybody there someone from your group
has to go out and take a picture and
then that person who took the picture
he's left out in the photo like he's not
in the photo because he took it and the
idea behind this feature is that you can
do a little bit of swapon and the
software will Stitch it together and
give you a composed picture where
everybody is in it and it's neat so uh I
tried it out with MADD huya and I took
the first photo and then we swapped and
it's kind of neat how that first photo
shows up as like a 3D object in the
camera app so you can use it as guidance
to match up the framing and this is what
we got all right you good yeah go for it
it dude it
worked a little we were pleasantly
surprised like there's some very clear
artifacting going on and some hover hand
but it was a a neat thing that did solve
a problem for some people right it's not
for everyone it's a very Niche case but
it is interesting and I do think that
the extra memory that's on these devices
helps be able to pull those off because
you do need to load that photo in like a
3D space while you're shooting it so
maybe that's what the ram was for now
the other AI feature that they demoed
was much more interesting to me so this
was called pixel screenshot
and the idea behind this is that like
for people with smartphones that take a
bunch of screenshots here and there to
either like remember something or if
they're just interested in something or
just want to be able to recall it in the
future usually that pile of screenshots
just grows and grows and if you ever do
need to recall something it's just it's
very difficult to kind of go through all
of th those screenshots and find the
thing that you're looking for but with
this new AI feature you can search
through those screenshots with some
conversational prompts and I tested out
a few times sometimes it worked really
well other times not so much but it's
like a very early beta right now but my
first reaction was this is neat There's
real utility to something like this
granted there's some privacy concerns
right it has access to your screenshots
now it's supposedly all done on device
but it is Google and I'm imagining you
know if you're taking
screenshots you're probably interested
in those things and now Google knows
that you're interested in those things
so technically they have a a really nice
Avenue to just send you more targeted
ads based on your screenshot collection
but overall I think it's useful but then
the second reaction I had was like wait
a minute how is this the like the
headlining feature of this new pixel
phone launch like how is this what
they're opening with isn't there
something more like this is a phone with
16 gigs of RAM it's got fourth
generation tensor chip supposed to be
awesome for machine learning and the
pixel 9 Pro devices include a one-year
subscription to Gemini Advance like
there's very there there's a lot of AI
capability here this is this is it like
come on there's got to be something more
now I spoke to the people at the Google
event uh the pre-briefing and they's
like yeah there's going to be other
features that are announced during the
the launch but why weren't they
shown in advance now my feeling is that
a lot of stuff isn't ready a lot of
stuff is kind of like it's Google right
the way they kind of Brew things over
time and then kind of release it but I'm
just surprised that the phone is as
expensive as it is actually no I take
that back the price kind of makes sense
to me just based on the RAM and just
based on you know the way that Google
does aggressive sale pricing and stuff
but what doesn't make sense to me is
just how limited the AI capabilities
that they presented seemed to be just
out of the gate now I hope that over
time this stuff becomes awesome and I
hope that by the review embargo lift
that there's some real stuff we can talk
about but right now it's like it just
feels a little underbaked anyways uh
that's
my kind of early thoughts on the Google
pixel 9 devices hope you guys enjoyed it
thumbs if you liked it subs if you loved
it